---
title: "A multi-functional simulation platform for on-demand ride service operations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-03-26-A multi-functional simulation platform for on-demand ride service operations
excerpt: 'This paper is about developing a multi-functional simulation platform for on-demand ride service operations'
date: 2023-03-26
venue: 'arxiv'
citation: 'Feng, S., Chen, T., Zhang, Y., Ke, J., & Yang, H. (2023). A multi-functional simulation platform for on-demand ride service operations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.12336.'
---


### Abstract
On-demand ride services or ride-sourcing services, offered by transportation network companies like Uber, Lyft and Didi, have been experiencing fast development and steadily reshaping the way people travel in the past decade. Various mathematical models and optimization algorithms, including reinforcement learning approaches, have been developed in the literature to help ride-sourcing platforms design better operational strategies to achieve higher operational efficiency. However, due to cost and reliability issues (implementing an immature algorithm for real operations may result in system turbulence), it is commonly infeasible to validate these models and train/test these optimization algorithms within real-world ride sourcing platforms. Acting as a useful test bed, a simulation platform for ride-sourcing systems will thus be very important for both researchers and industrial practitioners to conduct algorithm training/testing or model validation through trails and errors. While previous studies have established a variety of simulators for their own tasks, it lacks a fair and public platform for comparing the models/algorithms proposed by different researchers. In addition, the existing simulators still face many challenges, ranging from their closeness to real environments of ride-sourcing systems, to the completeness of different tasks they can implement. To address the challenges, we propose a novel multi-functional and open-sourced simulation platform for ride-sourcing systems, which can simulate the behaviors and movements of various agents (including drivers and passengers) on a real transportation network. It provides a few accessible portals for users to train and test various optimization algorithms, especially reinforcement learning algorithms, for a variety of tasks, including on-demand matching, idle vehicle repositioning, and dynamic pricing. In addition, it can be used to test how well the theoretical models, developed in the literature for equilibrium analysis and strategic planning, approximate the simulated outcomes. Evaluated on real-world data based experiments, the simulator is demonstrated to be an efficient and effective test bed for various tasks related to on-demand ride service operations.